.\" Man page for fsearch (section 1)
.TH FSEARCH 1 "July 2026" "fsearch" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fsearch \- fast recursive file content search
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsearch
.I keyword
.RI [ path ]
.RI [ flags ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fsearch
searches for a keyword inside file contents under a path (recursively,
including child directories). The default path is the current directory
.RB ( . ).
.PP
Matching is case-sensitive by default; use
.B \-i
/
.B \-\-ignore-case
to ignore case. With
.B \-e
/
.BR \-\-regex ,
the keyword is treated as a Go RE2 regular expression.
.PP
Output is grep-style
.RB ( path:line:content ).
On a TTY, path, line number, and keyword (or regex span) are colored; use
.B \-\-no-color
or a pipe to disable. Context lines
.RB ( \-C )
coalesce like grep when adjacent or overlapping on the same file.
.PP
.B \-\-json
emits one NDJSON object per match on stdout (no ANSI). Progress (files and
matches) is shown on stderr when it is a TTY (not with
.BR \-\-json );
use
.B \-\-no-progress
to disable.
.PP
Root
.B .gitignore
is loaded when present (root file only; MVP rule subset). Built-in directory
skips (for example
.BR .git ,
.BR node_modules )
always apply. Unreadable paths are skipped with a warning on stderr.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C ", " \-\-context " N"
Print
.I N
lines of context before and after each match.
.TP
.BI \-\-ext " list"
Comma-separated file extensions to include (for example
.BR go,md ).
Empty means all extensions.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-ignore " pattern"
Skip basenames matching
.I pattern
(exact or glob). Repeatable.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore-case
Case-insensitive search.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit one NDJSON object per match on stdout.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-\-no-gitignore
Do not load root
.BR .gitignore .
.TP
.B \-\-no-progress
Disable the progress indicator on stderr.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-regex
Treat
.I keyword
as a Go RE2 regular expression.
.TP
.BI \-\-workers " N"
Number of concurrent file-search workers.
.B 0
means
.BR NumCPU
(default).
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Basics
.EX
fsearch "TODO" .
fsearch "TODO" . --ext go,md -C 1 -i
.EE
.SS Filter files
.EX
fsearch "TODO" . --ext go,md
fsearch "FIXME" ./internal --ignore vendor
fsearch "TODO" . --no-gitignore
.EE
.SS Match options
.EX
fsearch "todo" . -i
fsearch "TODO" . -C 2
fsearch 'TODO|FIXME' . -e
fsearch 'todo' . -e -i
.EE
.SS Output & speed
.EX
fsearch "TODO" . --no-color
fsearch "TODO" . --json
fsearch "TODO" . --no-progress
fsearch "TODO" . --workers 4
.EE
.SH NOTES
.I keyword
must be non-empty (whitespace-only is rejected).
.PP
The primary supported platform is Linux;
macOS and Windows builds via Go are best-effort (see the project README).
.SH SEE ALSO
Project README (Quick start, install, limitations) and
.BR fsearch " --help" .
.SH AUTHOR
fsearch contributors.
